docs: proposal for enhancing scoped repository credentials (#18290)
argoproj/argo-cd: docs/proposals/project-scoped-repository-enhancements.md

### Goals

The goal of this proposal is to allow multiple app projects to have the ability to have separate repository credentials 
which happen to share the same URL.

### Non-Goals

- Having multiple repository secrets sharing the same URL _within the same_ `AppProject`.
- Allowing a single repository credential to be used in multiple `AppProject`s. 
- Preventing non project-scoped repository credentials from being used by an Application.
- Extending this to repository credential templates.

## Proposal

There are a few parts to this proposal.

We need to distinguish between a user accessing a repository via the API/CLI/UI and an application retrieving repository
credentials. In the first case, we need to maintain backwards compatibility for API consumers. The current behaviour 
is that the API will return the first repository found matching the URL given. Since we now want to allow the same URL 
to potentially be in multiple projects, we need to do some minor changes.

* If there is only one matching repository with the same URL and assuming the user is allowed to access it, use that repository 

> whether it is project-scoped or not. This is inline with the current behavior.

Author: I'm not sure I buy that formulation, see [here](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/inline) 🤔

> whether it is project-scoped or not. This is inline with the current behavior.

Reviewer: That's an adjective. This isn't.

> whether it is project-scoped or not. This is inline with the current behavior.

Author: You're right - I'll blame this one on me not having top-grades in English 😄

where a repository has both a global repository credential and a scoped credential for the project to which the 
application belongs.
* There will be more secrets proliferating in the `argocd` namespace. This has the potential to increase maintenance burden
to keeping said secrets safe, and it also makes it harder to have a bird's eye view from an Argo CD admin's perspective.
* Depending on the number of projects making use of distinct credentials for the same repository URL, loading the correct 
credentials from the repository secrets has the potential to scale linearly with the number of app projects (in the worst case 
scenario we would need to loop through all the credentials before finding the correct credential to load). This is likely 
a non-issue in practice.
* Also depending on the number of projects making use of distinct credentials for the same repository URL, this will 
imply that for each `AppProject` sharing the same repository URL, a separate copy of the repository will be checked out.
This has potential implications in terms of memory consumption, sync times, CPU load times etc. This is something 

> which an Argo CD admin will need to be mindful of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about which an Argo CD admin will need to be mindful.
```

Author: I'm guessing that should be

```suggestion
which an Argo CD admin will need to be mindful about.
```

?

Reviewer: I'm trying to avoid ending the sentence with a preposition.

Author: > This is something about which an Argo CD admin will need to be mindful.

...sounds wrong to me, as if Yoda is the author of that sentence. How about 
```suggestion
of which an Argo CD admin will need to be mindful.
```

?

is that the API will return the first repository found matching the URL given. Since we now want to allow the same URL 
to potentially be in multiple projects, we need to do some minor changes.

* If there is only one matching repository with the same URL, and assuming the user is allowed to access it _and_ there is

> no app project given as a parameter, use that repository whether it is project-scoped or not. This is in line with the 

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of `whether it is ... or not` -- my inclination is to write `whether or not ...`, but that doesn't improve it much. My next iteration favors `regardless`, but writing that out was awkward...

how about something along these lines:
```suggestion
no app project given as a parameter, use that repository ignoring any project-scope. This is in line with the 
```
